YOUR MORNING READ WITH COFFEE INSTEAD OF SCROLLING, YOU WONT REGRET

Hello hello, to this small community of mine on linkedIn or whereever you got my columne from! Welcome, thanks for taking a look, stay as much as you are interested I appreciate!

I have a proposal for you. How about you already start your day with doing something good for another person, cause trust me it will come back to you in some way some day. Or how about you break you routine of just scrolling or reading newspaper or reading some new inovative AI thingy article and you give me time and space. If you do so, i give you my pure soul honesty and heart, and trust me you will read something inspirative, maybe fun depends if our humours align, but deffinitely written out of the naked soul! 

I got your attention? If i didint just read bottom bolded sentences and if you think i deserve a chance maybe share, comment idk those stuff that marketing team says its good to do. 

So I will tell you a story about one girl called Neve (yeah thats me, but i will write in third person to feel a bit, just a bit more secure). 

So Neve(I know snow in italian, and i love the parallel cause i grow up skiing in winter for months and with a lot of snow, so its fine Italians) , first thing first that is not her name. Her full name is Nevena and she is from Serbia, Belgrade. And as much as that brought her dissadvantages in life she choose to persue, she would always choose in another life to be born in Serbia. Cause you know I dont think Neve is patriotic, she moved from that system selfishly searching for better future for herself and potential kids (now limited to her rescue dog Zoran, cause you know she would never buy a dog, cause putting price on a life is an ick to her, so she decided to give him a home, love, food and walks “animal equalityyy” - i just came up with this term), but still she runs 212 km form Hague to Brussels for 3 days just so she can give a speech in front of EU parlament about broken political situation in Serbia and call EU parlament not brave, and not interested for Serbia, a country on their doorstep where girls are threatened to be raped from policeman just cause they are against dictator government, where even Neve, when she did her internship in order to get a job, Neve was asked from her boss if she has a good connection (yeap corrupiton) or she is joining the ruling party in order to get a job. Obviously, Neve said no thanks, let her flex, she had a good connection, but Neve just wants to be herself and to achieve everything cause she is Neve herself individual and not a niece of someone or a doughter of someone else. That is one of the moments that really pushed her to understand that Serbia, and that broken system is not a place she belongs to. She has to go out of it or she will loose her potential and herself. So yeah HR CTO, write there passionate, empathy, proactive, fighting for her believes, non-matherialistic, honest values etc. Wrote it down? Nice nice lets continue the story hihi 

Did I mention Oh i didnt, Neve is a big nerd. Again write down smart, cause she does have pretty high IQ, she did test, she can share results with you privately. Neve really believes she can learn everything if she has to. So Neve was the best student in class in every school, she graduated first at her Bachelors with 9.3/10. Neve choose to study Biology, specialization Ecology and Environmental Protection. If you wondered why, here is “why”? Cause Biology is a science of all sciences Neve believed. Biology is a science of life. It decides what is alive, and what is not, and what is in between alive and not alive (virusesss.. save answer for the quiz). And why Ecology? Cause Neve wants to protect what she loves, what she understands and loves. Nature, which is a combinatioin of a loooot of those living cells and organisms coexisting together. Neve wants to protect Earth and every live being around her from us selfish humans, cause Earth is not ours it is borrowed from future generations, and we have to make sure we give it back to them in a good condition. But the after 4 years of uni she realises that in order to protect that you cant just know science and love it, you have to know politics how to talk to people, sociological dinamics, how to manage those resources that humans need to “survive comfortably”. You gotta learn how to communicate science to non-scientists, cause lets be honest, no one listens to nerds, but to people who translate that to big mass language. So she persues to do two masters on in Faculty of Political Science called Environmental policy, where she learns how infrastructure of city works, how to give proposal for improvement to major, how to talk to companies who will install solar panels on buildings, how if you are on the other side, how to sell those panels and what to advertise (PR they call it), but also historical background of Environmental Policy (shall she flex and say her GPA was 10/10, oh yeah she sould) , which believe or not started first in America (USA yeap) by who? Hippies (yeah fun fact, watch the movie Hair). Then second master she did was about management of resources of Earth, cause yeah we need to use them but what is the right way she wondered. So she learnt a lot, especially how things should work, as they do in EU and Netherlands, and she compared that to Serbia and realised, that she now as student in Amsterdam has a chance to present to one EU professor, very smart very educated, and you know observative and possibly powerful professor how things are broken in Serbia. How Serbia is a “pollution heaven” for EU cause they want to mine Lithium through company called Rio Tinto, very contraversial already even from before, provoking civil war in Papua New Guinea and distorying Aborigine shelters in Australia, just to mine some precious stones and make money, while destroying culture and lives? So she saw a chance to present how much lives of Serbian farmers, farmers that made milk for her when she was a baby, she owns them, she feels it in her soul, they are one of the most important part of the society, would be distroyed if that mmm lets say, be politicaly correct (count to 3 in yourself author), let say just “selfish” company Rio Tinto would mine lithium for electric cars for EU market. She has a chance to show someone from EU that powerful professor, that for their interest they are ruining lives of local farmers, their families. She went to every house in Gornje Nedeljice village, did an interview with every farmer and 100% of them said that there is no life if they ruin their fields, meadows. So yeah Neve writes her thesis about it presents for those short 5 minutes her research to Vrije University in Amesterdam and she succeeded! Someone heard about it. Though they didnt put it in their broad research as they did for the thesis of her collegues who presented same agricultural changes but in Ireland and North Netherlands, but okay Neve is used to have an answert “ It is not EU, it is not important”. HR you there, writing? You can add there to her qualities remembering the roots, sustainability values, empathy again, brave. 

Oh did I mention how amazing Neve mom was? No I didnt. Neve’s mom was a single parent, policewoman working against human trafficing and drugs import on Kosovo, yeah with all “fun” stuff such as gun. Which was btw hidden in Neves wardrobe, cause you know Balkan mentality if someone breaks in the house, they will not check kids wardrobe for a gun, but if a kid, Neve finds it oh well its fine its a Balkan lesson when you are 14 to learn how to shoot. So all fine. Elem (so in serbian), so that woman had her life savings 18k euros, justification, she would have more but she was a strong independent woman who bought her own appartment, and then she decided to give 15k euros out of that to Neve’s master with telling her when she was leaving, give me the key back you have no place to come back to. “You have to stay there, I gave everything I had, stay there, you out growe Serbia, you are bigger than what we have here, i give you chance, dont you dare to come back, give me the key of your childhood flat, you are now just a guest here, go and never come back” that is what she said on 24.8.2021. when Neve packed all her life in two suitcases and left to Belgrade Airport with one way ticket. But trust me this is Balkan parenting, she did it out of love as much as it sounds crazy to you, but she knew Serbia is too small, too i will say stupid to recognize Neves values, Neve has overgrown Serbian mentality, she has to fulfill her potential outside. Btw, Neves father is also amazing! Super kind, loving, the most positive person on EARTH! He thought Neve that even when everything is wrong, be positive, think it will be solved and it will! He had a cancer when Neve was a uni student, the eldest doughter, yeap every day there in hospital for her father, cause you know her little brother and sister were little and they needed space to process, and Neve second mom was working, so you know duties of eldest doughter, the first lamb to the slotter, and 5 years more mature than her age is. So Neves father though not that, scary and strickt as her mother, thought Neve that some hugs can be the last, lets appreciate every one of them, that even when its darkest, you have cancer, her father thought her, hey Neve dont worry it will be fine i will go out of this fully, and this is just an obsticle. And he did! Neve’s father survived all of it chemo, operation all of it with a smile, not once complaining, but just knowing that you can do it, and positivity brings good things in your life. Though after that Serbian system fuc*ed up both of her parents cause her dad went to pension after cancer and now has 150e pension per month and Neves mom who was fighting to save innocent girls from prostitution with her body and a gun had 400e. So just a reminder IT IS REALITY, NEVE FAMILY LIVES OUT OF 550e A MONTH, EUROPEANS! And as a fusnote, milk and bread, have the same prices as in AH or Jumbo… How do we survive in Serbia, from love and sharing. Also one good characteristic is that Neve is the eldest daughter, and on tik tok they put song “I am unstoppable, I am Porche with no breaks in background” cause us eldest daughters are first lambs to the sloughter, but also HR write, independent and responsible. Cause yeah Neves biggest life presents are her sister and brother and if they need kidney, Neve has two, everything for them.  

I mean, Neve was born 2 years before NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, you think she knew what Pampers was? You think there was money for extra milk powder, you think she was freely growing up, playing in the park? Not quite, google it, or dont just ask me cause what google says is not quite from Serbian perspective, its subjective. In order for you to be objective ask me for Serbian side of story I can spend hours explaining you. 

So yeah, that is Neve background and then lets get back to her mom telling her she has to succeed in EU, cause there is no home for her in Serbia anymore, she has no key to unlock appartment in Serbia. So Neve was on a mission with 3 diplomas from university in her pocket she started with washing dished in one restaurant in Amsterdam called Sushito. She grew there vertically, from crew to shiftleader to assistant manager to manager. So yeap Neve was making 20 kg of rice a day for 2 years in Netherlands, cause you cant go back home, you dont have one, everything was given for you to find a better future. But to be honest, Neve wanted it she told her mother when she first travelled to EU when whe was 15, that she would rather clean parks in EU than live in Serbia one day, so kinda simmilar ending but she was making pokebowls in EU instead of having a job in her field in Serbia. 

You think she didnt even try to have a decent job in Serbia? Oh yes she did. She did her internship in laboratory for water quality literally biological indicators methods where used, and after 6 months, her boss told her if she wants a job she can either use her connection to get it or join the ruling governmental party. As you know Neve so far she said, thank you bye. So she worked also in high school as biology teacher. Ohhhh she loved it! She didnt love the 500e salary a month, but she loved to be part of someones growth, to be someone she needed when she was younger, she thought those kids that real lessons are not “what is the cell”, “circle the correct answer” etc. she thought the not to lie, cause if they lie they get an F instantly, she thought them to questuon and do a research on every media information they get and the thought them that real life lessons happen during school breaks, before and after classes. She gave those students “honest place where tell me everything and we will figure it out place”. Neve figured her life call is to be a teacher. 

But also she can do everything else if needed. Obviously, she is capable of learning everythin. So she realised after those 2 years in restaurant that literally physically (since she dislocated her rib carrying rice around) and mentally (cause it was killing her inside that she is serving food to the ones who are less smart and educated than her, but just have more privileged background) so she took a loan in Netherlands, yeap very bravely she took a loan and gave all of her savings to educate herself more. She did a bootcamp 9 intense weeks, with a lot of tears, with a lot of fears at beginning, but also with a lot of knowledge whe finished it. She presented her teams project, one of first teams in school that had AI intergrated API as students, cause you know at that time Chat GPT and CoPilot were new unique and fancy tools. She presented it, og did i mentioin she was one of the best in her class, ah yeah no need you already know she is nerd and loves to study, okay okay. She was that good that right after she graduated the school kept her as freelancer teaching assistant, then shey gave her a job in sales cause she is very charming and has v good communication skills, also social intelligence, oh and also did i say Neve speaks 6 languages (if we include ex yugoslavian languages as one) or Neve speaks 10 languages (if we separate Croatian, Bosnian, Montenegren and Macedonian). Also in just 4 months after graduating she was promoted to be a teacher not just an assistant. So she was teaching in Amsterdam, Barcelona and even on Kings Collage in London!!!! You see little small girl from Serbia, who grow up without Pampers cause of was, was giving lectures around Eurooopee!!! 

So you see, write down “fast learning, communicative, smart, intelligent (cause you gotta have a lot of synapsis there in your brain to advance and learn this fast), ca-pa-ble of adj-ust-ment, brave”, you wrote it my future employer? Nice, nice. Lets continue her story 

But you know, Neve is very emotional person. She feels so many emotions, they literally guide her, you could see it in her teaching experience. So she believed in love, she was so in love at that time, so pure unconditional love she felt toward this one Irish boy. She believed thats it this is my person and even if everything else in worls, like career, flats money all that doesnt work she has her person that she calls home. She thought “I got it! I have some you know, part time teaching freelance jobs, but i have home, I got that key mom! I have a home, this person is my home! And I am here in EU”. Nice no? LOOOVELY! But not every home is a good home, she learnt hard way. Neve was ready to move out of Netherlands to support her love, her boy in Italy doing phd, she packed every piece of her live she has in Netherlands and she is going with him. She loved him so much that his happiness and success were hers too! But then life decided to give her a lesson. She shouldnt trust that much, she shuldnt give everything and loose herself. That person left her the night before their journey was supposed to start. That night Neve lost everything, she had a job with him, she had a flat with him that was cancelled, she had a visa depended on him. So if he goes to Italy for his phd, and he will and he did, without her she has 90days to find a job sponsored visa or go back to Serbia, where should i remind you she doesnt have a key of her home, like physically, just to emphasise pressure she had. 

So she decided, to be honest open and vulnerable to say whole story openly and ask for help, for someone to give her job and visa. To see her as human with all her good characteristics, ambitions, capabilities, inteligence, bravery, strength, love, honesty, stubborness etc. And Miyagami saw it. This small Dutch agency knew she doesnt have experience and she is a loss of money for couple of months (till they payed me Cursor, no I am joking, i also code not just prompt, write another one down employer pro-gra-mmer, Java-scr-ipt etc. ). But that small Dutch agency saw Neve as, whatever we give her, she prooved through her life she will not give up, she will stay alone in office when everyone goes till 9pm but she will solve it. They saw that Neve is honest and pure, and she has good values, she is grateful and she will be loyal employee. Maybe she will need a bit more time to finish a ticket, but she is always there to take that ticket. Not cause she loves working overhours, she has her hobbies too, but cause she wants to learn. She wants to grow, and that was cherished by Miyagami. 

But now Neve grew a bit more in knowledge and skills, but Miyagami has an internal shift in team composition so they have to let go Neve and all other developers from company. So Neve is back with another challenge, lets find new job, new place to grow, new place to proove ourselves, new role that will her main focus. Cause as you saw Neve is a strong independent woman, who is career oriented, cause love kind didnt work for her, and focusing on love made her loose herself. So she is driven by accomplishing the goals. She wasnt to grow, cause she is first women in her family to finish university, also first to run a marathon. Also running she has been doing it for 10 years now, shows how much she can handle a struggle, pain and bite her teeth and go through it cause there is a goal and giving up is not even an option. 

So yeah employers this is story about brave amazing woman Neve, me. You see how much she fighter with everything she had as resource. She just needs visa till september this year then she will finlly become equal as any privileged european, she will not need visa to be where she belongs more and she will be equal in this democratic equality-friendly Europe, cause she is not one to blame because she was born in a country that is not having same rights as the rest of European continent. If you see my qualities and have a position in your company for me i guarantee you, you will never regret having me on board, and even if you think i dont fully align with your requirements, I prooved i can in just 9 weeks learn it and if i changed career in that timeframe, i can just learn touse your technologies, trust me, or dont trust me in words my life has prooves. 

Thanks for reading hope you had lovely coffee and your day can start, and maybe just maybe in some time, i will be there in office with you appreciating the chance you give me. Oh yeah one more thing, I have a rescue small 6.5kg doggo called Zoran, from Serbia and he loves cuddles and if you offer pet friendly office, I am sure he will be a good therapy doggo for the team, cause you know we both come from Serbia and appreciate chances. Hihihihii 

XoXo 

Neve 

P.S. Oh yeah there is my CV attached, that sums up this story for AI scanning of skills! 

 

